README.md, before:

<img src="./img/title.png" alt="The OpenAI Trail title screen">

# The OpenAI Trail

A parody reimagining of the classic Oregon Trail where you lead a CSU-wide rollout of ChatGPT EDU. Manage staff morale, budget, and adoption metrics across 23 campuses while surviving policy reviews, surprise audits, and the occasional viral success story.

## Features

- **Campaign management:** Balance goodwill, morale, pace, and engagement while marching toward the Maritime Academy.
- **Data-driven storytelling:** All dialog, events, and scene flows live in `data/*.json`, making it easy to iterate without touching code.
- **Branching encounters:** Randomized events and quiz decisions influence resources and timeline progression.
- **Retro presentation:** Pixel UI, CRT scanlines, and responsive scaling evoke the Apple II era.

## Run Locally

The project is a static site with no build step—serve the root directory and open it in a browser.

```bash
python -m http.server 8888
```

Then visit [http://localhost:8888](http://localhost:8888) and the game will load from `index.html`.

Feel free to use any other static server (e.g., `npx serve`, `http-server`, or a VS Code Live Server extension).

### Environment Variables

Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and update `PUBLIC_TELEMETRY_ENDPOINT` (and any other values) for your deployment. The file is served to the browser, so only include keys intended for public use.

### Telemetry Dashboard

Open `telemetry.html` after configuring the endpoint to browse captured role/team/quiz submissions. The page uses the same `.env` values and supports pagination via the API’s `cursor` parameter.

## Editing Content

- `data/text_prompts.json` contains all menu copy, dialog, and quiz text.
- `data/events.json` defines campaign events, conditions, and resource effects.
- `data/flow.json` controls the default scene order and transitions.
- `src/game/logic.js` and `src/scenes/` house the state machine and scene render logic.

## Deploying to Netlify

Netlify can host the project as a static site:

1. Connect the GitHub repository in Netlify.
2. Set **Build command** to blank (no build step).
3. Set **Publish directory** to `.` (the repository root).
4. Deploy. Netlify will serve `index.html` along with all assets.

Alternatively, any static hosting service that can serve the repository root will work (GitHub Pages, Cloudflare Pages, etc.).

Commit message:

Add runtime config JSON fallback for telemetry endpoint

README.md, after:

<img src="./img/title.png" alt="The OpenAI Trail title screen">

# The OpenAI Trail

A parody reimagining of the classic Oregon Trail where you lead a CSU-wide rollout of ChatGPT EDU. Manage staff morale, budget, and adoption metrics across 23 campuses while surviving policy reviews, surprise audits, and the occasional viral success story.

## Features

- **Campaign management:** Balance goodwill, morale, pace, and engagement while marching toward the Maritime Academy.
- **Data-driven storytelling:** All dialog, events, and scene flows live in `data/*.json`, making it easy to iterate without touching code.
- **Branching encounters:** Randomized events and quiz decisions influence resources and timeline progression.
- **Retro presentation:** Pixel UI, CRT scanlines, and responsive scaling evoke the Apple II era.

## Run Locally

The project is a static site with no build step—serve the root directory and open it in a browser.

```bash
python -m http.server 8888
```

Then visit [http://localhost:8888](http://localhost:8888) and the game will load from `index.html`.

Feel free to use any other static server (e.g., `npx serve`, `http-server`, or a VS Code Live Server extension).

### Environment Variables

Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and update `PUBLIC_TELEMETRY_ENDPOINT` (and any other values) for your deployment. The file is served to the browser, so only include keys intended for public use.

For hosts that do not serve dotfiles (e.g., Netlify), edit `config/runtime-env.json`; the app loads this JSON first and falls back to `.env` / `.env.public`.

### Telemetry Dashboard

Open `telemetry.html` after configuring the endpoint to browse captured role/team/quiz submissions. The page uses the same `.env` values and supports pagination via the API’s `cursor` parameter.

## Editing Content

- `data/text_prompts.json` contains all menu copy, dialog, and quiz text.
- `data/events.json` defines campaign events, conditions, and resource effects.
- `data/flow.json` controls the default scene order and transitions.
- `src/game/logic.js` and `src/scenes/` house the state machine and scene render logic.

## Deploying to Netlify

Netlify can host the project as a static site:

1. Connect the GitHub repository in Netlify.
2. Set **Build command** to blank (no build step).
3. Set **Publish directory** to `.` (the repository root).
4. Deploy. Netlify will serve `index.html` along with all assets.

Alternatively, any static hosting service that can serve the repository root will work (GitHub Pages, Cloudflare Pages, etc.).
